today on our 2009 nissan xterra we'll be
adding the tow ready 4-pole to 5-pole
trailer wiring adapter part number two
zero zero three six now with the vehicle
already equipped with a 4-pole connector
we'll be adding the four to five pole
adapter which will plug directly into
our 4-pole connector with additional
blue wire connection this blue wire
connection will be the reverse taillight
wiring feed to start we'll go ahead and
open up the rear tailgate we'll remove
the two fasteners securing the driver
side taillight assembly
next pop it from its position being
careful not to break the alignment tabs
underneath
then we'll locate the wiring for the
reverse taillight this will be the black
and red wire running into the gray
connector next we'll need to find which
side is hot when the vehicle is put into
reverse so with a piece of wire we'll go
ahead and back probe the connector and
use our test light with the vehicle in
Reverse checking the connection point as
we can see the test light goes off when
connected to the red wire so we'll know
this is our hot wire when in reverse it
is necessary to be careful when putting
into reverse is not necessary to start a
vehicle but it will need to be an
auxiliary mode with your foot on the
brake it's a good idea to have an extra
set of hands or feet to accomplish this
task now to make our connection with the
manufacturers wiring will use the blue
quick splice connector provided with our
install kit sliding it over the
manufacturers red wire and then taking
the blue wire and sliding it into the
quick splice connector
we'll crimp it down and then close the
clasp quick tech tip I recommend to wrap
up this connection point with some black
electrical tape
then we'll go ahead and start riding the
wire well feed the black connector end
down between the bumper cover and the
body or sheet metal of the vehicle
pulling it out underneath then to secure
our wiring fine taillight housing we'll
use one of the black zip ties provided
with our install kit cutting off the
excess from the zip tie and then
reinstalling the taillight housing next
we'll go ahead and it underneath the
vehicle and start routing our wire to
route our wires together we'll go ahead
and cut the two zip ties holding the
current 4-pole connector in place and
then take the blue wire route it through
the hole in the hitch over to the 4-pole
and route them together next I'll take
the adapter harness plug into the 4-pole
and then the blue wire pigtailed into
the blue wire we just ran from the
reverse tail light circuit quick tech
tip I recommend to use some dielectric
grease in between these two connection
points we'll be using part number one
one seven five five now with the
connections made to clean up our install
look and to protect this connection I'm
also going to wrap it up with some black
electrical tape we're going to go ahead
and route the wiring over to the center
of the vehicle and out to the hitch
we'll use some black zip ties to secure
our wiring behind the hitch keep it safe
and secure
now is our wire secured we'll go ahead
and use our side cutter cut off the
excess from zip ties clean up our
install look and now to complete the
installation of the tow-ready adapter
4-pole to 5-pole trailer wiring adapter
part number two zero zero three six on
our 2009 nissan xterra